            TRANSITIONAL RESOURCE MONETARY SYSTEM
                     Global DAO, DAE (Economy) and Supporting Dapps
                              Base on Pre-Crypto TRMS by Mark Traver (c2009)
05/17/18
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
PREFACE
This summary is intended to be the simplest and shortest possible explanation of this system while
accurately conveying the main concepts behind the Economic System know as the TRMS, and its
logical implementation within the blockchain ecosystems. Such implementation could create a
seamless and complete automated global economic system that promotes lower barriers of entry for
goods producers and the creation of products with the highest level of recyclable and re-usable
materials as possible. The expected long term results of operating an economic system like this is that
over time there will be more and more resources and goods in the economy while at the same time
increasing the in-pocket money that the average person has as savings (available cash) all while the
currency value stays linked to commodity quantities. At some point people will have so many things
and so many “dollars” that the perceived wealth will be so high that there will no longer be any need to
sell anything for profit and we will be able to enter the era of the Resource Based Economy (RBE).
MODERN MONEY CREATION
Although there have been a few examples of GOLD backed currencies in the modern era (the USA
until 1933,1971 and Switzerland until 2000) after the Renaissance European royalty was compelled to
expand the money supply beyond their stored gold and coin which brought about the first “Fractional
Reserve” institution of money creation. The Rothschilds figured this one out, if the economy grows
there needs to be an equivalent growth in the money supply or else the economy grinds to a halt.
Looking back at what happened one would have to concluded the royalty were not to bright and got
duped by the Rothschilds and the “Banksters” as they were allowed the ability to create money by the
mere request of a borrower and his signature.
Along comes the Colonies and they realized this same concept and created Colonial Script, but this
time, instead of the Bankster’s getting to issue it at interest, the Government would spend the new
money into the economy for public projects (like roads etc.) at no interest and based on the annual
growth rate of the economy. As long as the government was accurate and not abusive of this ability to
create money, then this system worked far superior to the Bankster Fractional Reserve system.
Enter blockchain, STEEMIT and Dan’s gift of putting a twist on the familiar and pushing the
boundaries of possibility to new levels. Steemit follows this same concept, saying evidence shows
economies grow and therefor a token economy can have some rate of Token Inflation which can
responsibly be spent (eg. government) to the block producers and to promote desired behaviors
(content creation: Steemit). This was a genius move that is a milestone in the history of
cryptocurrencies and blockchain and glimmers at the future of yet unknown possibilities of these crypto
ecosystems.
During the creation of the TRMS a re-evaluation of these money creation schemes was conducted and a
question was posed: What is the “Most Fair” method of money creation?
The past showed the Banksters said “I care not who makes the Laws…….
And the Colony Governments said “The Government will Create and Decide”
And the USA said Gold and Silver
But really,,,,, if the legitimacy for creating more monetary supply is that there is more goods in the
economy, then shouldn’t the people that “add wealth” to the economy be the beneficiaries of the “new
money created”? How this would function will be be examined below.
These links are an educational series on the original non-crypto TRMS. They include issues that do not need to
be addressed in a “cryptoTRMS” as the cryptoTRMS is a global system and has no concerns about import and
export of materials:
https://www.facebook.com/notes/mark-traver/transitional-resource-monetary-system-trms/
10150103051437553/
https://www.facebook.com/notes/mark-traver/trms-101-finance-the-law-series/10150176954557553/
THE PROBLEM WITH CRYPTOCURRENCIES (MONEY COINS)
We live in a controlled economic system of Fractional Reserve money creation utilizing notes and
bonds of personal and National debt (IOU’s) to create bank deposits and circulating Federal Reserve
Notes. The beneficiary of this activity is primarily the Federal Reserve and the Bank of International
Settlements.
We all recognize that this system is a form of slavery using a Keynesian economic model and is in
serious need of change. Along comes Bitcoin and people feel in their hearts that the change is near, but
yet we fall into our old habits and instead of rethinking the situation, we do the same old things.
“We can’t defeat the existing system; we must build a better one instead” by David McElroy
Buckminster Fuller – "Build a New Model That Makes the Existing Model Obsolete"
So what do we do, we start using Cryptos like we already use money in the existing fiat monetary
system. We speculate and hope for gains and don’t institute new paradigms of lending and behavioral
motivation towards common goals instead of self interest. We have this wonderful seemingly full of
limitless possibilities new tool and we go and use it like a hammer, like the least intelligent tool in the
box.
What we need is a whole new economic system where the creation of money goes to the creator of the
real wealth (retain-able recyclable content and added value) and not to the bank or some central entity
like government. A brand new way of monetary creation that is used to encouraged social benefit and
prosperity via stimulating ease of entry into both business and markets for entrepreneurs and intelligent
design of products to maximize recycle-ability and reuse-ability. An intelligently designed Economic
System that includes all aspects of the economy from Natural Resource extraction and Commodities
Exchanges to Design and Recycling, with OpenMarketPlaces to exchange goods freely and arbitration
and governance systems for continued smooth operation. (Real Estate and Housing and some other topics
are not covered in this Executive Summary)
TRMS – Transitional Resource Monetary System
DESIRED SOCIAL RESULTS
    ➢ It is the intention of this economic system to provide a stable currency backed by recyclable
         materials both in storage and in products within the economy.
    ➢ to promote the usage of recyclable materials and technologies as well as modularity and
         reusable products.
    ➢ to lessen the burden of labor costs on producers.
    ➢ to lessen the costs for natural resource extractors.
    ➢ To lessen the costs for building a home.
    ➢ to create such abundance that the perceived cost of things becomes insignificant.
    ➢ Elimination of Corporations and Admiralty Law on the Land
THE 2 BRANCHES OF DAE (Decentralized Autonomous Economy)
The DAE of the TRMS is composed of a governance token (TRMS) of its governing DAO and a
circulating Monetary Resource Token ($MRT) whose circulation equals the sum of 3 sub components:
         1. Recyclable Resources (in products or storage)
2. Natural Resources (not yet extracted)
 3. Labor adding value to physical products
DISTRIBUTION METHODS
 TRMS Token (“Terms Vote”)
The governance token will be …... TRMS Dapp developers as their observed concern for similar ideals
makes them perfect candidates. …...shall stay with the original designer (M. Traver) until he feels
confident in ongoing performance of the DAE and sells off his influence (TRMS Tokens). Governance
tokens will have voting rights on issues of VARIABLES in the Dapps’ systems (DAE).
 MRT Token (“$mart Coin”)
The currency of the DAE for the TRMS is the $MRT (eg. $100MRT = “100 Smarts”) and is used for all
purposes of commerce. The value is fixed to a ratio of recyclable commodity values including gold and
silver. The monetary supply is set by the 3 forms of currency creation explained below. Some require
the BURNING of the token when repaid at the end of the contract.
1. Anyone who provides raw resources to a TRMS recycle center can receive $MRT tokens for its
value.
   Anyone in possession of goods with recyclable content (who will recycle it at the end of its life-
cycle) may go to a qualified “Recycle Center” and have an NFT with certified value of the recyclable
content less the cost of recycling of the good valued in $MRT coin.
    Likewise, when one produces a product with recyclable content, a NFT is created for each of those
products in the same manner as above.
2. Labor cost in the amount of 50% will be provided to physical product producers and will be due and
repayable when the product is sold or 1 year, whichever is quicker. This will reduce the labor cost
burden for business owners with new ideas and increase the money supply to include the value added
to the goods by that labor.
3. Natural Resource Extractors upon submission of proper documentation of Resource Value, Cost of
Extraction, Cost of Reclamation and Labor Costs can get ½ the net value of the resource, after said
considerations, for up to one year or when the resource is sold, whichever comes first.
MONETARY MOTIVATORS
Any product design with certified recyclable content may get that amount of recyclable content for
production (less recycling costs) FREE of charge at the Recycle Center or location external to the DAE.
This encourages product producers to make products with the highest percentage of recyclable
materials possible and that they are as easily recyclable as possible, as this will reduce Production
Costs significantly. Modular and Reusable products will get relative fair consideration.
The TRMS DAE will lower the entry barriers for new entrepreneurs by lowering startup cost both in
the smart use of materials and in spread out labor costs. Lower Barriers means more employed people
and a stronger economy with more competition and innovation.
COMPARISON AND THEORY
        -“Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's” - Mark 12:17
        -“What is NOT Caesar's use for TRUTH, JUSTICE and COMPASSION to fight the existing
          Principalities of Evil.” - Mark Traver (2018)
        MICRO-ECONOMICS
                    Table-1: Per-Widget Start Up Cost for new Entrepreneur
                   Todays System                                           TRMSystem
     Product made of 50% recyclable Material               Product made of 50% recyclable Material
 Expense                   Owner            System     Expense                   Owner           System
 Labor                      $50               $0       Labor                       $25              $25
 Materials                  $40               $0       Materials                  $20            $20 NFT
 Other                      $10               $0       Other                      $10                $0
 TOTAL COSTS              $100                $0       TOTAL COSTS               $55               $45
                                                       Cost after Labor repaid $80
 Sales Price $150                Profit $50            Sales Price $150                Profit $70
                   Todays System                                           TRMSystem
     Product made of 100% recyclable Material             Product made of 100% recyclable Material
 Expense                   Owner            System     Expense                   Owner           System
 Labor                      $50               $0       Labor                       $25              $25
 Materials                  $40               $0       Materials                    $0           $40 NFT
 Other                      $10               $0       Other                      $10                $0
 TOTAL COSTS              $100                $0       TOTAL COSTS                $35               $65
                                                       Cost Incl. Labor repaid    $60
 Sales Price $150                Profit $50            Sales Price $150                Profit $90
It is in the interest of everything that we reduce the waist stream and the easy way to do that is to make
everything as recyclable as possible. It is also evident that a currency can also be money as when the
USA was on a gold standard. If we consider that not only gold but any material that can be kept within
the economy can be used as an equally good backing to a money, then any material that is recyclable
in a product may be added to the backing of the money supply. Also when a worker “adds value” to a
product by his efforts, that added value is for a temporary period in the economy.
For that reason 50% of peoples pay can be created in MRT and it can be repaid when the product is
sold or within one year (by the employer/business owner), whichever is quicker. In this way the money
is made available to buy products in the economy, but it is also burned as the product will eventually
one day be broken or no longer serve a purpose at which point it will be recycled and no longer have
any added value. Not only Labor can be assisted, if a product needs “recyclable material” that is not
available FREE within the DAE then MRT can be created to pay for the amount of material that will be
recyclable when purchased from a vendor outside the DAE. This new recyclable material remains for
perpetuity as recyclable content backing the MRT and is now in the DAE forever. In this way, the DAE
continually acquires recyclable resources and hold them as the “COMMON HERITAGE” of all people
on Earth and all that choose to use the TRMS DAE are equally privy to its benefits.
The example of Table-1, shows two scenarios of a entrepreneur and his widget of either 50% recyclable
material or 100% recyclable material. It compares what it would cost to “start up” (per widget unit)
under our current system as well as between the recyclable content variable.
As can be seen, the incentives to make recyclable products is HUGE and the assistance to labor costs is
substantial. These two aspects of the TRMS will keep the DAE extremely liquid and active. In the
current system there is no incentive to make things recyclable (the system thrives on waist) and no
consideration is given to labor and added value to products because the only concern is LENDING (or
with Colonial Script the question of what the government wants to spend it on).
So, say in Table-1 that the product sells for $150, that would mean a person today would make $50
profit off $100 invested, not bad. The guy with 50% recyclable product at the same price makes $70
profit off of only $55 invested. Finally the guineas guy that makes the 100% recyclable product makes
$90 off of only $35 invested. What an increadable difference,, from 1/3 profit to 3X profit off the same
product.
